Workshop_Proposal/AgileCurationWorkshopProposalOutline.md, before:

#DRAFT Proposal Outline for Agile Curation Workshop

##Project Summary

Reusability of scientific data and reproducible science are directly connected to the ability to do the value-added work to generate metadata, documentation, and standardization. However, data volumes, the inclusion of software, new tools and techniques, distributed collaboration, limited resources, and more inhibit the timely generation of requisite scientific data curation content.

When curation is considered for scientific data it is often at the end of the research process. That is when a scientist publishes their research, they may then decide or be required to deposit there data in an archive or repository. At that point, many questions are raised related to provenance and curational metadata that are much more difficult to answer at the end of the process.

Data curation traditionally follows a data life cycle approach with discretely defined steps. These steps are portrayed as linear with some feedback loops.

We argue that a new conceptualization of data curation needs to be developed. One that incorporates new tools and new approaches are available to rethink approaches to data life cycle curation. These tools and approaches are based on two principles: 1) Move the inclusion of data management and curation as early in the research process as possible, and 2) to not think of data as static, but something that is dynamic with an ongoing presence.

We propose a workshop to: 1) Bring together experts in relevant fields such as data curation, data science, library science, software carpentry, and data carpentry, 2) Systematically identify commonly understood barriers to effective data curation, 3) Explore the application of agile software development concepts and their applicability to data management, 4) Develop a case study framework, 5) Identify research issues, and 6) Propose next steps such as potential proposals, papers, or work in other forums such as RDA or EsIP.

We believe the development and application of these concepts will have wide reaching impacts improving the accessibility and reusability of science data, improving the outputs of scientific research, contributing to scientific reproducibility, and reducing the overall costs of data curation.

**[PAGE BREAK HERE]**

###Overview

###Intellectual Merit

###Broader Impacts


##Workshop Objectives and Outcomes

###Objectives
1. Bring together experts in relevant fields such as data curation, data science, library science, software carpentry, and data carpentry, 
2. Systematically identify commonly understood barriers to effective data curation, 
3. Explore the application of agile software development concepts and their applicability to data management, 
4. Identify research issues
5. Community development

###Outcomes
1. Refince agile curation conceptual framework
2. Develop a case study framework
2. Collect a set of case studies
3. Workshop report
4. Publication
5. Ongoing community engagement [need to specify how...]
6. Propose other next steps such as potential proposals, or additional work in other forums such as RDA or EsIP.

##Workshop Need and List of Topics

###Need
* Current curation is difficult to sustain. Threatens to be overwhelmed by increases in data volumes, complexities, sources
* Current data life cycle paradigm needs to be updated, doesn't reflect the way data is created, evolves, and is used
* These challenges negatively impact reusability, scientific productivity, increase curation costs, affect reproducibility

###Meeting Topics
* Why agile?
* What can we learn from agile development practices
* Refining the agile curation framework
* Identifying case studies / Case study collection
* Community building around this approach

##A List of Recent Meetings on the Same Subject

##The Names of the Chairperson and Members of Organizing Committees and their Organizational Affiliations

##Proposed Workshop Location and Dates, Announcement, Workshop Family and Child Care Resources

##Meeting Organization, How it will be Conducted, Recruitment of Speakers and Other Attendees including Underrepresented Groups, Dissemination of Results, How the Meeting Will Contribute to the Enhancement and Improvement of Scientific Activities

###Workshop Agenda

###Dissemination of Results, How the Meeting Will Contribute to the Enhancement and Improvement of Scientific Activities

___


#*References*

Commit message:

added two new topics in the mix
added two new topics in the mix, diversity and education/training

Workshop_Proposal/AgileCurationWorkshopProposalOutline.md, after:

#DRAFT Proposal Outline for Agile Curation Workshop

##Project Summary

Reusability of scientific data and reproducible science are directly connected to the ability to do the value-added work to generate metadata, documentation, and standardization. However, data volumes, the inclusion of software, new tools and techniques, distributed collaboration, limited resources, and more inhibit the timely generation of requisite scientific data curation content.

When curation is considered for scientific data it is often at the end of the research process. That is when a scientist publishes their research, they may then decide or be required to deposit there data in an archive or repository. At that point, many questions are raised related to provenance and curational metadata that are much more difficult to answer at the end of the process.

Data curation traditionally follows a data life cycle approach with discretely defined steps. These steps are portrayed as linear with some feedback loops.

We argue that a new conceptualization of data curation needs to be developed. One that incorporates new tools and new approaches are available to rethink approaches to data life cycle curation. These tools and approaches are based on two principles: 1) Move the inclusion of data management and curation as early in the research process as possible, and 2) to not think of data as static, but something that is dynamic with an ongoing presence.

We propose a workshop to: 1) Bring together experts in relevant fields such as data curation, data science, library science, software carpentry, and data carpentry, 2) Systematically identify commonly understood barriers to effective data curation, 3) Explore the application of agile software development concepts and their applicability to data management, 4) Develop a case study framework, 5) Identify research issues, and 6) Propose next steps such as potential proposals, papers, or work in other forums such as RDA or EsIP.

We believe the development and application of these concepts will have wide reaching impacts improving the accessibility and reusability of science data, improving the outputs of scientific research, contributing to scientific reproducibility, and reducing the overall costs of data curation.

**[PAGE BREAK HERE]**

###Overview

###Intellectual Merit

###Broader Impacts
**Need to address diversity in context of proposal**
**Include grad student / education as part of the workshop**

##Workshop Objectives and Outcomes

###Objectives
1. Bring together experts in relevant fields such as data curation, data science, library science, software carpentry, and data carpentry, 
2. Systematically identify commonly understood barriers to effective data curation, 
3. Explore the application of agile software development concepts and their applicability to data management, 
4. Identify research issues
5. Identify education / training issues and opportunities
6. Community development

###Outcomes
1. Refince agile curation conceptual framework
2. Develop a case study framework
2. Collect a set of case studies
3. Workshop report
4. Publication
5. Ongoing community engagement [need to specify how...]
6. Propose other next steps such as potential proposals, training workshops, or additional work in other forums such as RDA or EsIP.

##Workshop Need and List of Topics

###Need
* Current curation is difficult to sustain. Threatens to be overwhelmed by increases in data volumes, complexities, sources
* Current data life cycle paradigm needs to be updated, doesn't reflect the way data is created, evolves, and is used
* These challenges negatively impact reusability, scientific productivity, increase curation costs, affect reproducibility

###Meeting Topics
* Why agile?
* What can we learn from agile development practices
* Refining the agile curation framework
* Identifying case studies / Case study collection
* Addressing education and training
* Community building around this approach

##A List of Recent Meetings on the Same Subject

##The Names of the Chairperson and Members of Organizing Committees and their Organizational Affiliations

##Proposed Workshop Location and Dates, Announcement, Workshop Family and Child Care Resources

##Meeting Organization, How it will be Conducted, Recruitment of Speakers and Other Attendees including Underrepresented Groups, Dissemination of Results, How the Meeting Will Contribute to the Enhancement and Improvement of Scientific Activities

###Workshop Agenda

###Dissemination of Results, How the Meeting Will Contribute to the Enhancement and Improvement of Scientific Activities

___


#*References*
